doc/source/whatsnew/v2.3.3.rst, before:

.. _whatsnew_233:

What's new in 2.3.3 (September XX, 2025)
----------------------------------------

These are the changes in pandas 2.3.3. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of pandas.

{{ header }}

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. _whatsnew_233.string_fixes:

Improvements and fixes for the StringDtype
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Most changes in this release are related to :class:`StringDtype` which will
become the default string dtype in pandas 3.0. See
:ref:`whatsnew_230.upcoming_changes` for more details.

.. _whatsnew_233.string_fixes.bugs:

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
- Fix bug in :meth:`Series.str.replace` using named capture groups (e.g., ``\g<name>``) with the Arrow-backed dtype would raise an error (:issue:`57636`)
- Fix regression in ``~Series.str.contains``, ``~Series.str.match`` and ``~Series.str.fullmatch``
  with a compiled regex and custom flags (:issue:`62240`)

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. _whatsnew_233.contributors:

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Commit message:

DOC: whatsnew entry for on_bad_lines regression fix (GH#61837)

doc/source/whatsnew/v2.3.3.rst, after:

.. _whatsnew_233:

What's new in 2.3.3 (September XX, 2025)
----------------------------------------

These are the changes in pandas 2.3.3. See :ref:`release` for a full changelog
including other versions of pandas.

{{ header }}

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. _whatsnew_233.string_fixes:

Improvements and fixes for the StringDtype
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Most changes in this release are related to :class:`StringDtype` which will
become the default string dtype in pandas 3.0. See
:ref:`whatsnew_230.upcoming_changes` for more details.

.. _whatsnew_233.string_fixes.bugs:

Bug fixes
^^^^^^^^^
- Fix bug in :meth:`Series.str.replace` using named capture groups (e.g., ``\g<name>``) with the Arrow-backed dtype would raise an error (:issue:`57636`)
- Fix regression in ``~Series.str.contains``, ``~Series.str.match`` and ``~Series.str.fullmatch``
  with a compiled regex and custom flags (:issue:`62240`)
- Fix regression in ``on_bad_lines`` callable when returning too many fields: now emits
  ``ParserWarning`` and truncates extra fields regardless of ``index_col`` (:issue:`61837`)

.. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
.. _whatsnew_233.contributors:

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~
